site/content/en/docs/Contribute/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Contribute"
linkTitle: "Contribute"
weight: 6
description: >
  How to contribute to Open Match
---

Open Match is an open source project where anyone can contribute to it.
If there's some thing you see that can be [improved](https://github.com/googleforgames/open-match/issues/new) we'd be happy to help you make those changes.

## Get involved

There's many ways to get in touch with the Open Match community.

* [Slack](https://open-match.slack.com/) ([Join](https://join.slack.com/t/open-match/shared_invite/enQtNDM1NjcxNTY4MTgzLWQzMzE1MGY5YmYyYWY3ZjE2MjNjZTdmYmQ1ZTQzMmNiNGViYmQyN2M4ZmVkMDY2YzZlOTUwMTYwMzI1Y2I2MjU)) - Talk to the Open Match engineers and users on Slack.
* [open-match-discuss@ mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/open-match-discuss) - Get the latest information on changes happening to Open Match.

## Code of Conduct

Participation in this project comes under the Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct

## Development and Contribution

Please read the [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/googleforgames/open-match/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) guide for directions on submitting Pull Requests to Open Match.

Commit message:

Rename open match basics to concepts, add contribution instructions

site/content/en/docs/Contribute/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Contribute"
linkTitle: "Contribute"
weight: 6
description: >
  How to contribute to Open Match
---

Open Match is an open source project where anyone can contribute to it.
If there's some thing you see that can be [improved](https://github.com/googleforgames/open-match/issues/new) we'd be happy to help you make those changes.

## Get involved

There's many ways to get in touch with the Open Match community.

* [Slack](https://open-match.slack.com/) ([Join](https://join.slack.com/t/open-match/shared_invite/enQtNDM1NjcxNTY4MTgzLWQzMzE1MGY5YmYyYWY3ZjE2MjNjZTdmYmQ1ZTQzMmNiNGViYmQyN2M4ZmVkMDY2YzZlOTUwMTYwMzI1Y2I2MjU)) - Talk to the Open Match engineers and users on Slack.
* [open-match-discuss@ mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/open-match-discuss) - Get the latest information on changes happening to Open Match.

## Code of Conduct

Participation in this project comes under the Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct

## Contributing to Open Match

Open Match is in active development and we would love your contribution! Please
read the [contributing guide](https://github.com/googleforgames/open-match/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines on contributing to
Open Match.

The [Open Match Development guide](https://github.com/googleforgames/open-match/blob/master/docs/development.md) has detailed instructions
on getting the source code, making changes, testing and submitting a pull request
to Open Match.
