site/content/en/docs/Guides/api.md, before:

---
title: "API"
linkTitle: "API"
weight: 1
description: >
  This guide covers how you can interact with the Open Match API.
---

Open Match has a resource based REST API that is served from HTTP and gRPC. It also
complies with the OpenAPI (fka Swagger) API Specification which means it's easy to
download the schema and [generate clients](https://swagger.io/tools/swagger-codegen/)
in many different languages.

## Open Match default host names and endpoints
The following defines the in-cluster hostnames and endpoints of Open Match's external services. The corresponding Helm configurations used to generate these configs could be found at [here](https://github.com/googleforgames/open-match/blob/master/install/helm/open-match/values.yaml).
```yaml
swaggerui:
  hostName: om-swaggerui
  httpPort: 51500
mmlogic:
  hostName: om-mmlogic
  grpcPort: 50503
  httpPort: 51503
frontend:
  hostName: om-frontend
  grpcPort: 50504
  httpPort: 51504
backend:
  hostName: om-backend
  grpcPort: 50505
  httpPort: 51505
```

## Interacting with Open Match via gRPC
We recommend using [gRPC](https://grpc.io/) to talk to Open Match.
The following is an example of an in-cluster program that creates a vanilla gRPC client to talk to Open Match Frontend and then calls `frontend.CreateTicket` method.
```go
import (
  "fmt"
  "log"

  "google.golang.org/grpc"
  "open-match.dev/open-match/pkg/pb"
  "open-match.dev/open-match/pkg/structs"
)

...
// Create a gRPC frontend client
conn, err := grpc.Dial("om-frontend:50504"), grpc.WithInsecure())
if err != nil {
  log.Fatalf("grpc.Dial failed with %v", err)
}
defer conn.Close()
feClient := pb.NewFrontendClient(conn)

// Create an Open Match CreateTicketRequest with Open Match's public package 
sent := &pb.CreateTicketRequest{
  Ticket: &pb.Ticket{
    Properties: structs.Struct{
      "test-property": structs.Number(1),
    }.S(),
  },
}
resp, err := feClient.CreateTicket(sent)
if err != nil {
  log.Errorf("feClient.CreateTicket failed with %v", err)
}

fmt.Println("Open Match assigned id %s to the ticket", resp.GetTicket().GetId())
...
```

## Interacting with Open Match via the HTTP endpoint
Open Match provides REST API for all of its external components using the [grpc-gateway](https://github.com/grpc-ecosystem/grpc-gateway) plugin.
Below is a vanilla in-cluster Go program to interact with Open Match via its HTTP endpoint.
```go
import (
  "fmt"
  "net/http"
  "io/ioutil"

  "github.com/golang/protobuf/jsonpb"
  "open-match.dev/open-match/pkg/pb"
  "open-match.dev/open-match/pkg/structs"
)

...
var m jsonpb.Marshaler
// The HTTP endpoint of frontend.CreateTicket API
apiURL := fmt.Sprintf("http://om-frontend:%d/v1/frontend/tickets", 51504)
// Create an Open Match CreateTicketRequest with Open Match's public package 
sent := &pb.CreateTicketRequest{
  Ticket: &pb.Ticket{
    Properties: structs.Struct{
      "test-property": structs.Number(1),
    }.S(),
  },
}
payload, err := m.MarshalToString(&sent)
if err != nil {
	log.Fatalf("m.MarshalToString(%#v) failed with %v; want success", payload, err)
}
// Send the Request to frontend.CreateTicket endpoint
resp, err := http.Post(apiURL, "application/json", strings.NewReader(payload))
if err != nil {
  log.Fatalf("http.Post(%q) failed with %v, want success", apiURL, err)
}
defer resp.Close()
buf, err := ioutil.ReadAll(resp.Body)
if err != nil {
  log.Errorf("ioutil.ReadAll(resp.Body) failed with %v; want success", err)
}
// Unmarshal the response to a Go struct
var received *pb.CreateTicketResponse
if err := jsonpb.UnmarshalString(string(buf), received); err != nil {
  log.Errorf("jsonpb.UnmarshalString(%s, &msg) failed with %v; want success", buf, err)
}

fmt.Println("Open Match assigned id %s to the ticket", received.GetTicket.GetId())
...
```

## Interacting with Open Match via the Swagger UI
You can view and talk to this API via the Swagger UI application that is deployed
with your Open Match cluster.

### Google Kubernetes Engine
If your cluster runs on GKE you can access the tool from your cluster using a Public IP address.
Go to `Cloud Console > Kubernetes Engine > Services & Ingress` and look for `om-swaggerui`.
In that row there's a link to view the API browser.

### Locally
The Swagger UI is accessible from your cluster via port 51500. Kubernetes's
virtual network is by default private so you'll need to add a proxy to communicate with it.

```bash
# Open the port to the pod so that it can be accessed locally.
kubectl port-forward --namespace open-match service/om-swaggerui 51500:51500
```

From there you can access the proxy from http://localhost:51500.

## Using the Swagger UI

Swagger UI is a generic tool for viewing APIs and interacting with them.
Open Match has many APIs but the default one is the `Frontend`.

![Swagger UI for Open Match](../../../images/guides/api-swaggerui.png)

By clicking on a function you can see the schema of the API. To call an API click
`Try it out` and then fill in body and then select `Execute`. You'll then see the
HTTP code and response.

## Disable Swagger UI

For security purposes you will want to disable the Swagger UI application by setting
`--set openmatch.swaggerui.install=false` in the helm command or add the following
YAML to your values.yaml.

```yaml
openmatch:
  swaggerui:
    install: false
```

Commit message:

Reference to http endpoint definitions

site/content/en/docs/Guides/api.md, after:

---
title: "API"
linkTitle: "API"
weight: 1
description: >
  This guide covers how you can interact with the Open Match API.
---

Open Match has a resource based REST API that is served from HTTP and gRPC. It also
complies with the OpenAPI (fka Swagger) API Specification which means it's easy to
download the schema and [generate clients](https://swagger.io/tools/swagger-codegen/)
in many different languages.

## Open Match default host names and endpoints
The following defines the in-cluster hostnames and endpoints of Open Match's external services. The corresponding Helm configurations used to generate these configs could be found at [here](https://github.com/googleforgames/open-match/blob/master/install/helm/open-match/values.yaml).
```yaml
swaggerui:
  hostName: om-swaggerui
  httpPort: 51500
mmlogic:
  hostName: om-mmlogic
  grpcPort: 50503
  httpPort: 51503
frontend:
  hostName: om-frontend
  grpcPort: 50504
  httpPort: 51504
backend:
  hostName: om-backend
  grpcPort: 50505
  httpPort: 51505
```

## Interacting with Open Match via gRPC
We recommend using [gRPC](https://grpc.io/) to talk to Open Match.
The following is an example of an in-cluster program that creates a vanilla gRPC client to talk to Open Match Frontend and then calls `frontend.CreateTicket` method.
```go
import (
  "fmt"
  "log"

  "google.golang.org/grpc"
  "open-match.dev/open-match/pkg/pb"
  "open-match.dev/open-match/pkg/structs"
)

...
// Create a gRPC frontend client
conn, err := grpc.Dial("om-frontend:50504"), grpc.WithInsecure())
if err != nil {
  log.Fatalf("grpc.Dial failed with %v", err)
}
defer conn.Close()
feClient := pb.NewFrontendClient(conn)

// Create an Open Match CreateTicketRequest with Open Match's public package 
sent := &pb.CreateTicketRequest{
  Ticket: &pb.Ticket{
    Properties: structs.Struct{
      "test-property": structs.Number(1),
    }.S(),
  },
}
resp, err := feClient.CreateTicket(sent)
if err != nil {
  log.Errorf("feClient.CreateTicket failed with %v", err)
}

fmt.Println("Open Match assigned id %s to the ticket", resp.GetTicket().GetId())
...
```

## Interacting with Open Match via the HTTP endpoint
Open Match provides REST API for all of its external components using the [grpc-gateway](https://github.com/grpc-ecosystem/grpc-gateway) plugin.
Below is a vanilla in-cluster Go program to interact with Open Match via its HTTP endpoint. Please see the [Open Match's API definitions](https://github.com/googleforgames/open-match/tree/master/api) for the latest HTTP endpoints each service is using.
```go
import (
  "fmt"
  "net/http"
  "io/ioutil"

  "github.com/golang/protobuf/jsonpb"
  "open-match.dev/open-match/pkg/pb"
  "open-match.dev/open-match/pkg/structs"
)

...
var m jsonpb.Marshaler
// The HTTP endpoint of frontend.CreateTicket API
apiURL := fmt.Sprintf("http://om-frontend:%d/v1/frontend/tickets", 51504)
// Create an Open Match CreateTicketRequest with Open Match's public package 
sent := &pb.CreateTicketRequest{
  Ticket: &pb.Ticket{
    Properties: structs.Struct{
      "test-property": structs.Number(1),
    }.S(),
  },
}
payload, err := m.MarshalToString(&sent)
if err != nil {
	log.Fatalf("m.MarshalToString(%#v) failed with %v; want success", payload, err)
}
// Send the Request to frontend.CreateTicket endpoint
resp, err := http.Post(apiURL, "application/json", strings.NewReader(payload))
if err != nil {
  log.Fatalf("http.Post(%q) failed with %v, want success", apiURL, err)
}
defer resp.Close()
buf, err := ioutil.ReadAll(resp.Body)
if err != nil {
  log.Errorf("ioutil.ReadAll(resp.Body) failed with %v; want success", err)
}
// Unmarshal the response to a Go struct
var received *pb.CreateTicketResponse
if err := jsonpb.UnmarshalString(string(buf), received); err != nil {
  log.Errorf("jsonpb.UnmarshalString(%s, &msg) failed with %v; want success", buf, err)
}

fmt.Println("Open Match assigned id %s to the ticket", received.GetTicket.GetId())
...
```

## Interacting with Open Match via the Swagger UI
You can view and talk to this API via the Swagger UI application that is deployed
with your Open Match cluster.

### Google Kubernetes Engine
If your cluster runs on GKE you can access the tool from your cluster using a Public IP address.
Go to `Cloud Console > Kubernetes Engine > Services & Ingress` and look for `om-swaggerui`.
In that row there's a link to view the API browser.

### Locally
The Swagger UI is accessible from your cluster via port 51500. Kubernetes's
virtual network is by default private so you'll need to add a proxy to communicate with it.

```bash
# Open the port to the pod so that it can be accessed locally.
kubectl port-forward --namespace open-match service/om-swaggerui 51500:51500
```

From there you can access the proxy from http://localhost:51500.

## Using the Swagger UI

Swagger UI is a generic tool for viewing APIs and interacting with them.
Open Match has many APIs but the default one is the `Frontend`.

![Swagger UI for Open Match](../../../images/guides/api-swaggerui.png)

By clicking on a function you can see the schema of the API. To call an API click
`Try it out` and then fill in body and then select `Execute`. You'll then see the
HTTP code and response.

## Disable Swagger UI

For security purposes you will want to disable the Swagger UI application by setting
`--set openmatch.swaggerui.install=false` in the helm command or add the following
YAML to your values.yaml.

```yaml
openmatch:
  swaggerui:
    install: false
```
