site/content/en/docs/Guides/Matchmaker/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Matchmaking using Open Match"
linkTitle: "Matchmaking using Open Match"
weight: 1
description: >
  A deep dive into building an Open Match based Matchmaker.
---

## Objective

The guide presents a high-level Online Game Services architecture that leverages Open Match for matchmaking. It explains in details the core customizations that need to be added to Open Match to build your Matchmaker. It also takes a deep dive into the external components that interact with Open Match. Along the way, it covers the Open Match concepts needed for building these components.

This guide is a pre-reading for the tutorial for [building a basic Matchmaker]({{< relref "../../Tutorials/Matchmaker101/_index.md" >}}). You can use this [Tutorial Solution](https://github.com/googleforgames/open-match/blob/{{< param release_branch >}}/tutorials/matchmaker101) as a reference when going through each component in this guide.

## Game Services Architecture

![Architecture](../../../images/architecture.png)

### Open Match Core

Open Match comprises of a set of services hosted in a Kubernetes cluster. These services expose the core functionality of Open Match over gRPC and HTTP

#### Open Match Frontend

The Open Match Frontend provides management of Tickets (a basic matchmaking request in Open Match). It is used to create, delete and get details of the current state of a Ticket.

#### Open Match Backend

The Open Match Backend provides the core functionality of generating matches. It accepts MatchProfiles (a match template that can be used to generate matches) and returns matches for the requested profile. It also enables setting Assignments for matches.

#### MMLogic (Data Service)

The MMLogic service enables querying the Tickets that meet certain constraints from the current Ticket pool.

### Customized Components

To build a custom Matchmaker using Open Match, the user needs to provide the following customizations. These can be authored as services exposed over gRPC or HTTP endpoints.

#### Match Function

The core matchmaking logic is implemented as a Match Function service. Open Match Backend triggers the Match Function service when it receives a request to generate matches. The Match Function execution receives MatchProfiles, fetches Tickets that match the profile from MMLogic and returns matches.

#### Evaluator (Optional)

Open Match allows for concurrent Match Functions to execute on the same player pool. The matches generated by such concurrent Match Function executions may have overlapping Tickets. Given that one Ticket should only be used by a result, Open Match allows the user to plug in an Evaluator component to deduplicate matches before returning results. Open Match provides a default Evaluator which suffices for most common use cases. See [Evaluator Guide]({{< relref "../evaluator.md" >}}) for details on proposal evaluation.

### External Components

Although Open Match based Matchmaker offers core matchmaking functionality, some other Game Services need to handle key functionality such as handling player connections, fetching DGS (Dedicated Game Server) allocation etc. These services interact with Open Match to enable key matchmaking scenarios. Here is an overview of these services that are external to an Open Match based Matchmaker but are a part of an E2E setup:

#### Game Frontend

This is the component that receives the matchmaking request from the game client and eventually provides the game client with the Assignment. The Game Frontend typically authenticates the player, fetches player data and creates a matchmaking request in Open Match and fetches the Assignment for the Ticket.

#### Director

This is the component that understands the types of matches (MatchProfiles) that can be served and fetches matches from the Open Match Backend. The Director also interfaces with the DGS allocation system to fetch Game Servers for matches and sets Game Server Assignments in Open Match.

### Life of a matchmaking request

Here is a high level flow for a matchmaking request.

1. A Game Client connects to the Game Frontend requesting for a Game Server Assignment.
2. The Game Frontend validates the player, fetches its properties from the platform services and calls Open Match Frontend to create a Ticket for this player.
3. The Director calls FetchMatches on Open Match Backend to generate Matches for a MatchProfile.
4. Open Match Backend triggers Match Function execution for this MatchProfile.
5. The Match Function fetches all the Tickets for the the MatchProfile and generates a Match.
6. The Open Match Backend returns the Match to the Director.
7. The Director requests the DGS allocation system for a Game Server for the Match.
8. The Director then sets an Assignment for all the Tickets in the Match to the Game Server that was returned.
9. The Game Frontend fetches the Assignment and returns it back to the client.

## Components Deep Dive

The Below sections take a deepdive into how each of these components interact with Open Match and explains the core Open Match concepts needed to build these components:

{{< pagelist >}}

## Next Steps

Now that you are familiar with building an Open Match based Matchmaker, its time to build one!

Please proceed with the step-by-step tutorial for [building a basic Matchmaker]({{< relref "../../Tutorials/Matchmaker101/_index.md" >}})

Commit message:

Tweaks to "Matchmaking using Open Match" (#100)
Some verbiage cleanup and adjustment to remove some ambiguity, and make
very clear which part was talking to what. I'm hoping I got it correct
from my current understanding, but definitely let me know if I didn't.

site/content/en/docs/Guides/Matchmaker/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Matchmaking using Open Match"
linkTitle: "Matchmaking using Open Match"
weight: 1
description: >
  A deep dive into building an Open Match based Matchmaker.
---

## Objective

The guide presents a high-level Online Game Services architecture that leverages Open Match for matchmaking. It explains in details the core customizations that need to be added to Open Match to build your Matchmaker. It also takes a deep dive into the external components that interact with Open Match. Along the way, it covers the Open Match concepts needed for building these components.

This guide is a pre-reading for the tutorial for [building a basic Matchmaker]({{< relref "../../Tutorials/Matchmaker101/_index.md" >}}). You can use this [Tutorial Solution](https://github.com/googleforgames/open-match/blob/{{< param release_branch >}}/tutorials/matchmaker101) as a reference when going through each component in this guide.

## Game Services Architecture

![Architecture](../../../images/architecture.png)

### Open Match Core

Open Match comprises of a set of services hosted in a Kubernetes cluster. These services expose the core functionality of Open Match over gRPC and HTTP

#### Open Match Frontend

The Open Match Frontend provides management of Tickets (a basic matchmaking request in Open Match). It is used to create, delete and get details of the current state of a Ticket.

#### Open Match Backend

The Open Match Backend provides the core functionality of generating matches. It accepts MatchProfiles (a match
template that can be used to generate matches) and returns matches for the requested profile. 
It also provides the functionality for creating Assignments for Matches when invoked by the Director, and returning
Assignments to the Open Match Frontend when requested.

#### MMLogic (Data Service)

The MMLogic service enables querying the Tickets that meet certain constraints from the current Ticket pool.

### Customized Components

To build a custom Matchmaker using Open Match, the user needs to provide the following customizations. These can be authored as services exposed over gRPC or HTTP endpoints.

#### Match Function

The core matchmaking logic is implemented as a Match Function service. Open Match Backend triggers the Match Function service when it receives a request to generate matches. The Match Function execution receives MatchProfiles, fetches Tickets that match the profile from MMLogic and returns matches.

#### Evaluator (Optional)

Open Match allows for concurrent Match Functions to execute on the same player pool. The matches generated by such concurrent Match Function executions may have overlapping Tickets. Given that one Ticket should only be used by a result, Open Match allows the user to plug in an Evaluator component to deduplicate matches before returning results. Open Match provides a default Evaluator which suffices for most common use cases. See [Evaluator Guide]({{< relref "../evaluator.md" >}}) for details on proposal evaluation.

### External Components

Although Open Match based Matchmaker offers core matchmaking functionality, other Game Services will be needed to handle
key features such as handling player connections, fetching DGS (Dedicated Game Server) allocations etc. These
services interact with Open Match to enable game specific matchmaking scenarios. 
Here is an overview of these services that are external to an Open Match based Matchmaker but are a part of an end to
end setup:

#### Game Frontend

This is the component that receives the matchmaking request from the game client and eventually provides the game client with the Assignment. The Game Frontend typically authenticates the player, fetches player data and creates a matchmaking request in Open Match and fetches the Assignment for the Ticket.

#### Director

This is the component that understands the types of matches (MatchProfiles) that can be served and fetches matches
from the Open Match Backend. The Director also interfaces with the DGS allocation system to fetch Game Servers for
matches and creating Game Server Assignments from these details in Open Match, via communicating with the Open Match
Backend.

### Life of a matchmaking request

Here is a high level flow for a matchmaking request.

1. A Game Client connects to the Game Frontend requesting a Game Server Assignment.
2. The Game Frontend validates the player, fetches its properties from the platform services and calls Open Match Frontend to create a Ticket for this player.
3. The Director calls FetchMatches on Open Match Backend to generate Matches for a MatchProfile.
4. Open Match Backend triggers Match Function execution for this MatchProfile.
5. The Match Function fetches all the Tickets for the the MatchProfile and generates a Match.
6. The Open Match Backend returns the Match to the Director.
7. The Director requests the DGS allocation system for a Game Server for the Match.
8. The Director then creates an Assignment for all the Tickets in the Match to the Game Server that was returned, via
 the Open Match Backend.
9. The Game Frontend fetches the Assignment from the Open Match Backend and returns it back to the client.

## Components Deep Dive

The Below sections take a deepdive into how each of these components interact with Open Match and explains the core Open Match concepts needed to build these components:

{{< pagelist >}}

## Next Steps

Now that you are familiar with building an Open Match based Matchmaker, its time to build one!

Please proceed with the step-by-step tutorial for [building a basic Matchmaker]({{< relref "../../Tutorials/Matchmaker101/_index.md" >}})
